So
let's start by talking about the order of results for collections
and we'll see that there's certain Collections and their properties that affect the results order
And I'll show you a bunch of examples are these examples all appear in
my ex21 folder in my GitHub repository
So I strongly recommend that you take a look at this coat
It is very destructive and there's lots of comments and you can run it and see what the results are ensign
So it turns out that certain types of Collections and certain properties collections
maintain encounter order in particular ordered splitter
Raiders ordered collection and certain static stream Factory methods
those things maintain encounter order
So let's take a look at an example examples throughout this lesson to the encounter order
Here is shown by this array
there were creating and then converting into a list
And the encounter order here is 23142
So in this particular case
the list is ordered
even though it doesn't have to be unique
we can have duplicates
We can have two appearing twice
For example
So
when we say list
Parallel stream because it's a list
we know it's going to have the order
Encoded
or enforce
the encounter order will be must be enforced for that
Recall
By the way
that ordered is not the same thing as sort it
So you can see that this list is ordered to 3142, but that list is not sorted
It's just order a little bit confusing
but don't don't confuse or conflate those two terms
The next thing that happens is that we're going to filter out values
We only allow even numbers to progressed to the string
And if you recall back to our discussion of the filter in operation
we talked about cyclical stream internals
which don't change here
We talked about the fact that filter doesn't change the ordering property
If may change the size property cuz there may be fewer things
in this case
We drop out all the odd numbers but ordering is preserved
Next thing we do is we take each number and we multiply it by 2
Once again
map will preserve ordering
It may not can be distinct
It may not be sorted
but it will be ordered
And then
the last thing we do is we use the to array terminal operation to convert the stream of even numbers
* 2 into an array of integers
And the results here must be ordered must show up as 484 cuz we got rid of the odd numbers and we had to preserve the encounter order and that's because our list is an ordered collection
Okay
Hopefully that's pretty clear
I think it's pretty straightforward
Unordered collections don't need respect encounter order
So let's take a look at an example that will demonstrate this
In this example
We take in a re convert it into a list Natok
It's the same way as before and then turn that into a hash set and a half set is unordered and unique so we know right away that they'll only be one to hear instead of tutus because hash that is going to be unique
What I have said is also an order
There's no ordering maintain a task that just whatever the half is happened to Hash to
So when we run this program
couple things will happen
The code could actually execute faster and that's because we don't need to maintain encounter order when we're done
And so is a result
we might come back with the order being being eight 4 or for 8, cuz it's only be one for not to because of that is got unique values
but we don't have to maintain a bit red that we
that the streams
Parallel streams invitation does not have to maintain that encounter order
So as a result
it is likely to run faster